# nf-core/quilt: Output

## Introduction

This document describes the output produced by the pipeline. Most of the plots are taken from the MultiQC report, which summarises results at the end of the pipeline.

The directories listed below will be created in the results directory after the pipeline has finished. All paths are relative to the top-level results directory.

## Pipeline overview

The pipeline is built using [Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/) and processes data using the following steps:

- [Glimpse Chunk](#glimpse) - Create chunks of the reference panel
- [Remove Multiallelics](#multiallelics) - Remove multiallelic sites from the reference panel
- [Convert](#convert) - Convert reference panel to .hap and .legend files
- [QUILT](#quilt) - Perform imputation
- [Concatenate](#concatenate) - Concatenate all imputed chunks into a single VCF.
- [Pipeline information](#pipeline-information) - Report metrics generated during the workflow execution

### Glimpse Chunk

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `glimpse/`
  - `*.txt`: TXT file containing the chunks obtained from running Glimpse chunks.

</details>

[Glimpse chunk](https://odelaneau.github.io/GLIMPSE/) defines chunks where to run imputation. For further reading and documentation see the [Glimpse documentation](https://odelaneau.github.io/GLIMPSE/glimpse1/commands.html). Once that you have generated the chunks for your reference panel, you can skip the reference preparation step and directly submit this file for imputation.


### Convert

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `bcftools/convert/`
  - `*.hap`: a .hap file for the reference panel.
  - `*.legend*`: a .legend file for the reference panel.

</details>

[bcftools](https://samtools.github.io/bcftools/bcftools.html) aids in the conversion of vcf files to .hap and .legend files. A .samples file is also generated.  Once that you have generated the hap and legend files for your reference panel, you can skip the reference preparation step and directly submit these files for imputation (to be developed).

### QUILT

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

  - `quilt/`
  - `quilt.*.vcf.gz`: Imputed VCF for a specific chunk.
  - `quilt.*.vcf.gz.tbi`: TBI for the Imputed VCF for a specific chunk.

</details>

[quilt](https://github.com/rwdavies/QUILT) performs the imputation. This step will contain the VCF for each of the chunks.

### Concat

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

  - `bcftools/concat`
  - `.*.vcf.gz`: Imputed and ligated VCF for a sample.

</details>

[bcftools concat](https://samtools.github.io/bcftools/bcftools.html) will produce a single VCF from a list of imputed VCFs in chunks.


### Pipeline information

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `pipeline_info/`
  - Reports generated by Nextflow: `execution_report.html`, `execution_timeline.html`, `execution_trace.txt` and `pipeline_dag.dot`/`pipeline_dag.svg`.
  - Reports generated by the pipeline: `pipeline_report.html`, `pipeline_report.txt` and `software_versions.yml`. The `pipeline_report*` files will only be present if the `--email` / `--email_on_fail` parameter's are used when running the pipeline.
  - Reformatted samplesheet files used as input to the pipeline: `samplesheet.valid.csv`.
  - Parameters used by the pipeline run: `params.json`.

</details>

[Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/tracing.html) provides excellent functionality for generating various reports relevant to the running and execution of the pipeline. This will allow you to troubleshoot errors with the running of the pipeline, and also provide you with other information such as launch commands, run times and resource usage.
